And so we come to the second part of this very interesting lesson on map plot lib, where we have seen
some fairly basic graphs so far, but now we're going to get a bit further to see other types of graphs,
for example, bar charts which are widely used and we usually associate them with numerical results
linked to categories.
So first we're going to create a dictionary with three dishes and their prices.
We'll use the names of the meals as keys and the price will be the value.
Then the variable can be called food and be equal to a dictionary whose first value is pizza and its
value can be 15.
The second dish is going to be hamburger with a value of 11 and a third key sandwich.
This lesson is making me hungry.
This will have a value of 17.
Perfect.
And now we have our variable, which this time has text values.
We're going to create a bar chart where the x axis will be formed by the dictionary keys and the y axis
will contain values.
We start as usual by typing fig and ax, say that this is equal to plt sub plot and now we have our
graph already prepared.
Let's put that in its ax.
We have this time a bar graph i.e. bar and we're going to put food keys on the x axis and we're going
to put food values on the y axis.
But we're not just going to leave it like that.
We're going to give it some more data.
We're going to configure it with a X set where we're going to set the title of our chart to be food
prices.
The X label is going to be equal to food and the Y label for prices.
And with this, we could run this cell.
And here comes my child, which, as you can see, is different from the previous ones, because now
we have bars and it shows us the price information in relation to the height of the bar.
So now let's try making a chart that has horizontal bars and this is going to be quite similar activity.
So let's call Fig again an ax equal to plot subplots and let's create a chart that this time is of type
bar H.
Unlike the simple bar, this one is a horizontal bar chart.
So we're going to put a list on the Y axis that's food keys.
And on the other axis, we're going to put another list that's food dot values.
And we're also going to set up, well, pretty much the same as before.
Let's copy this line, which I can paste with some changes, because now food is going to be on the
Y axis and the prices is going to be on the X axis.
So let's run this cell.
And now we have a graph with the same values but orientated horizontally.
Another graph that we can plot is a histogram.
So let's do something here that allows us to generate random numbers but normally distributed.
We're going to do this with a function that we're going to assign to the variable x lets it be a numpy
object random and the function runs n with a value of 1000.
This means that we are showing the normal distribution of random numbers around 1000.
And now we create a histogram again with fig and ax equal to plot subplots.
And below we're going to call x with a hist and we're going to pass the variable x to it.
This is going to have a graph which is a histogram which represents that normal distribution of random
numbers.
We're going to look at a more complex case, and I think this will help you better understand the difference
between Fig and Axe here.
The instruction says that we're going to work with subplots or figures that contain several graphs,
not as we've been doing so far, where we represent one plot at a time, but many plots at the same
time.
We will be able to do this because our fig, i.e. our graphic area, our canvas, can contain many graphics,
i.e. many acts.
So that's why it's important to understand this.
By now you might be saying, Why do I have to do this over and over again?
Because the FIG is one and the X can be many, even though so far we have only put a single ax in each
fig.
So how do we do this?
How do we create, for example, a figure that has four graphs, we put fig again, and now instead
of putting a single ax, we open a parenthesis with a tuple, and here we can open another parenthesis
where we put the first two ax, which we're going to be ax one and ax two.
We leave this parentheses and we put a comma and we open another parenthesis where we put ax three and
ax four.
So now we have four graphs inside the same figure.
Actually, this figure has a tuple composed of two tuples of graphs.
So let's make this equal to plot subplots again.
But now we're going to pass some additional data inside the subplot parentheses, because this needs
some parameters.
We need to put a value for the end rows parameter, which is going to be the number of rows which is
going to be two, and then end calls for the number of columns, which is going to be two as well.
So we want it to be two by two plot.
And we can also size this chart with fig size, which is going to be ten wide and five tall.
So if I run this, you'll see that so far has no value has been passed to it.
I get four empty graphs which have no information, but for graphs nonetheless.
So the parameter I set so far allow for our fig to be composed of four acts arranged in two by two table.
So if I change any parameter, for example, here instead of ten, I put 20.
You will see that my graph will now be much wider, but just as high.
So you can play around with these values to create the graphs you want.
So we're going to set it back to ten and I'm going to copy all of this so I don't have to write it once
more since it's a lot of information, but because the next thing is to create charts with content.
So then we add data to each of these graphs.
First we create a chart with the same layout with a size of ten by five.
For our first chart, we're going to take the set of X one and Y one that we generated earlier so that
we can show something here.
We're going to put x one dot plot and we're going to pass in x one, which, if you remember, comes
out here.
So remember that here we have the four plots that we're going to use.
Each of these variables from X ax one to ax four represents one of the four graphs that appears so in
the first graph.
We're going to pass in some information that we already have to make it simpler.
So let's put here the X one and Y one, which already exists in our working environment.
And for the second graph we have to call the variable X to you.
Follow me.
And here we're going to put a scatter graph with the variables that we already had, x two and y two.
So we already have our second graph.
So let's make a third graph.
It says here that it must have prices of the three males in the bottom left corner of the graph.
So that's ax three.
And now we're going to assign it a bar chart and we're going to put food dot keys in the X and food
dot values in the Y.
And we have our third chart as well.
The graph in the bottom right hand corner i x4 is going to be a histogram i.e. hist and we're going
to open the brackets and the values.
It's going to have all the random values with normal distribution.
So we're going to put an NP object here again dot random dot rand MN so that it has the normal distribution.
And in the brackets we're going to make it with the number 1000 again.
We run this, and here come our photographs.
Look how nice they are.
We've created four graphs in a single figure.
Well, let's move on.
It says here that Matt Plot Lib has a set of various styles available.
So what we're looking at here are graphs displayed in a particular aesthetic style, which is the default.
This style has determined, for example, that the areas have no lines in the background, that the
colour of the graphs is always blue and the formatting of the numbers, etc..
So can we change this?
Yes, because there are many styles available, but I'm going to show you all the styles that exist
with plt, dot style, dot available.
And here we see all the styles that exist.
So since this already has a default style, we're going to change that default style and here we're
going to determine that now PLT style use.
We're going to open the brackets and then we're going to write Seabourn White Grid, which is one of
the styles available.
You can put any other one if you like.
When I run this, I'm not going to see any changes yet because I just changed the settings of the default
style that's used.
Now I can copy all of this so I don't retype and paste it, and if I run it now, it's going to show
up with the new style.
But while we're at it, let's take the opportunity to change some of the things like assigning some
different colors to the graphics that we already have.
For example, the first graphic besides having these two values, X and Y.
If we add a comma, we can add another attribute like color.
Now we can say that it is equal to some hexadecimal value.
So let's put the numeral and let's make it equal to f c be a03 and we're going to copy this and we're
going to paste it also in chart two.
So let's go to this one after the values and let's add color.
Let's try a different color.
This time we put 03c.
6fc.
And let's go on to the last one and let's do the same thing.
And we put the comma, we put color and we change the color so it doesn't all look the same.
And let's put f, c, 036b and let's run this and see what we have now.
All right.
We have the same graphics, but with a different style.
The background has changed.
It now shows the grid.
This is thanks to changing the default, and by changing the colors, we can make each of the graphics
display in a different color.
And in fact, if I go back to the top, to the graphics, I've already run and I run this one again,
which had nothing.
We're going to see that now.
The grid is going to appear inside.
This wasn't there before.
So I've changed the way that it's played by default and this graph to now has the grid in it and so
on.
So this has been introduction to plot lib.
There is a lot more to learn, so please don't stop there.
We have no excuse not to learn because you already know how it works.
You just learnt it.
So now you need to know in depth all the resources you have.
So I'm going to move on to the next lesson now because we still have a lot to learn today.